HTTP:
HTTP is an application-level protocol used to access the World Wide Web resources. The term hypertext stands for text containing links to other resources and text that the readers can easily interpret.
HTTP communication consists of a client and a server, where the client requests the server for a resource. The server processes the requests and returns the requested resource. The default port for HTTP communication is port 80, though this can be changed to any other port, depending on the web server configuration. The same requests are utilized when we use the internet to visit different websites. We enter a Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) as a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) to reach the desired website, like www.hackthebox.com.


cURL:
cURL (client URL) is a command-line tool and library that primarily supports HTTP along with many other protocols. This makes it a good candidate for scripts as well as automation, making it essential for sending various types of web requests from the command line, which is necessary for many types of web penetration tests.
as penetration testers, we are mainly interested in the request and response context, which usually becomes much faster and more convenient than a web browser.

HTTPS:
HTTPS (HTTP Secure) protocol was created, in which all communications are transferred in an encrypted format, so even if a third party does intercept the request, they would not be able to extract the data out of it. For this reason, HTTPS has become the mainstream scheme for websites on the internet, and HTTP is being phased out, and soon most web browsers will not allow visiting HTTP websites.

HTTPS Flow:
If we type http:// instead of https:// to visit a website that enforces HTTPS, the browser attempts to resolve the domain and redirects the user to the webserver hosting the target website. A request is sent to port 80 first, which is the unencrypted HTTP protocol. The server detects this and redirects the client to secure HTTPS port 443 instead. This is done via the 301 Moved Permanently response code
Next, the client (web browser) sends a "client hello" packet, giving information about itself. After this, the server replies with "server hello", followed by a key exchange to exchange SSL certificates. The client verifies the key/certificate and sends one of its own. After this, an encrypted handshake is initiated to confirm whether the encryption and transfer are working correctly.

HTTP Requests and Responses:
HTTP communications mainly consist of an HTTP request and an HTTP response. An HTTP request is made by the client (e.g. cURL/browser), and is processed by the server (e.g. web server). The requests contain all of the details we require from the server, including the resource (e.g. URL, path, parameters), any request data, headers or options we specify, and many other options.

HTTP Request:
Field	Example	Description
Method	GET	The HTTP method or verb, which specifies the type of action to perform.
Path	/users/login.html	The path to the resource being accessed. This field can also be suffixed with a query string (e.g. ?username=user).
Version	HTTP/1.1	The third and final field is used to denote the HTTP version.

HTTP Response:
The first line of an HTTP response contains two fields separated by spaces. The first being the HTTP version (e.g. HTTP/1.1), and the second denotes the HTTP response code (e.g. 200 OK).

Response codes are used to determine the request's status, as will be discussed in a later section. After the first line, the response lists its headers, similar to an HTTP request. Both request and response headers are discussed in the next section.

Finally, the response may end with a response body, which is separated by a new line after the headers. The response body is usually defined as HTML code. However, it can also respond with other code types such as JSON, website resources such as images, style sheets or scripts, or even a document such as a PDF document hosted on the webserver.





